The Naive Bayes algorithm is one of
the most important algorithms for
text classification.
The intuition of a Naive Bayes
algorithm is really quite simple.
It's based on Bayes rule,
which we'll see in a second.
And relies on very simple
representation of the document
called the bag of words representation.
Let's see the intuition of
the Bag of Words representation.
Imagine I have some document that says,
I love this movie!
It's sweet, but
satirical humor, and so on.
And or job
is to build this function gamma which
takes the document and returns a class.
The class could be positive, or
the class could be negative,
in the case of sentiment analysis.
Which is it?
Positive or negative?
In order to solve this task,
one thing we might do is look at
individual words in the document.
Like love, or satirical or great.
We might look at all the words,
in some kinds of text classification,
we're going to look at all the words.
We're going to look at every single word.
In other cases,
we'll look at just some subset.
If we were to look at a subset,
we might imagine that
the document looks something like this,
it just look like it has the word love and
the word satirical, and the word great,
and all the other words have disappeared.
Whether we use a subset of words or
all the words in the document,
the bag of words representation
loses all the information about
the order of the words in the document.
And all we represent about the document
is the set of words that occurred
in their accounts.
So for example, for the previous document,
we might represent the document as just
the vector of words, great, love,
recommend, laugh, happy and
for each one account, great occur twice,
love occur twice, recommend occur once.
And again, we can keep all of the words
in the document and we'll often do that,
or we can keep just some of the words in
the document if we have an idea that some
of the words are particularly
indicative cues.
So the idea of the bag
of words representation
is that we're going to represent our
document just by a list of words and
their counts and throw away
everything else about the document-
which order the words occurred in,
what font they were in, anything else.
And our function gamma, or classifier,
will take that representation and
assign us a class positive or negative.
And this applies, I've shown it to you for
the two class problem
of sentiment analysis.
Positive or negative sentiment.
But this supplies for all sorts
of document classification tasks.
So I might have some document I need to
classify into a different computer science
topic because I'm building an online
library of computer science papers or
I'm giving advice on
computer science topics.
So I have some text, some document here,
with words like parser,
or language or label or translation.
And I want to know which aspect of
computer science it should go in so
I can file my paper automatically.
And a good text classifier should
automatically figure out that's a natural
language processing paper.
So that's the intuition of
the Naive Bayes classifier.